[DOC-430] Document Kafka support (#309)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/streams/kafka_on_gdn/kafka-java-client.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Kafka Java Client
---

> You can use Kafka Java client to create Java producer, consumer. The current version of the Kafka Java client is 2.8.0.

Reviewer: If there is an official site for this client, then link it with the first mention. 

Why do we talk about the current version rather than the version we support? I do not like having content in our docs that can become wrong due to circumstances outside our control, like Kafka doing a release.

> The Kafka consumer is NOT thread-safe. The Kafka producer is thread-safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka consumer is _not_ thread-safe. The Kafka producer is thread-safe.
```

Reviewer: Use italic for emphasis rather than uppercase.

I do not know what "thread-safe" means, but if it's something Kafka users will understand, then it's fine.

> This document focuses only on the client API for producing and consuming messages on Kafka topics.

Reviewer: @dlozina-macrometa, will there be SDK support for the Kafka functionality? If so, then we might want to add that in here later.

> ### Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

Reviewer: Always go in order of headings. We have the h1 taken from the title, so the next will always be h2. It's not a good practice to skip directly to lower-level headings.

> The latest version of the Kafka Java client library is available via [Maven Central](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.kafka/kafka-clients). To use the latest version, add the kafka-clients library to your build configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest version of the Kafka Java client library is available via [Maven Central](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.kafka/kafka-clients). To use the latest version, add the `kafka-clients` library to your build configuration.
```

> Maven

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Maven

```

Reviewer: Looks like this should be a heading.

> If you use Maven, add the following information to the pom.xml file.

Reviewer: Should we link to Maven in this sentence? If it's open source, I would say yes.

> If you use Maven, add the following information to the pom.xml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Maven, then add the following information to the pom.xml file:
```

> ```

Reviewer: Please add a code type for the block. Bash, js, whatever.

<!-- in your <properties> block -->
<kafka.version>2.8.0</kafka.version>

<!-- in your <dependencies> block -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.kafka</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-clients</artifactId>
    <version>${kafka.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

> ### Kafka Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Kafka Properties
```

> To connect to Kafka using client libraries, you should specify Kafka properties are as follows.

Reviewer: Perfect intro sentence.

> To connect to Kafka using client libraries, you should specify Kafka properties are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to Kafka using client libraries, you should specify Kafka properties are as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect to Kafka using client libraries, you should specify the following Kafka properties:
```

I'd reword it slightly

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
String username = "<my-tenant>/<my-fabric>";
String password = "token:<my-api-key or my-JWT>";
String jaasTemplate = "org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username=\"%s\" password=\"%s\";";
String jaasCfg = String.format(jaasTemplate, username, password);
props.put("sasl.jaas.config", jaasCfg);
props.put("sasl.mechanism", "PLAIN");
props.put("security.protocol", "SASL_PLAINTEXT");
props.put("bootstrap.servers", "<my-gdn>.<my-paas>.macrometa.io:9092");
Note: The topic/stream in GDN could be either global or local that was mentioned above in username variable.
```

> If you use TLS authentication, then you should add or replace properties are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use TLS authentication, then you should add or replace properties are as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use TLS authentication, then you should add or replace the following Kafka properties:
```

```java
props.put("security.protocol", "SASL_SSL");
props.put("ssl.truststore.location", "<path-to-file-client.truststore.jks>");
props.put("ssl.truststore.password", "<truststore-password>");
props.put("ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm", "");
props.put("bootstrap.servers", "<my-gdn>.<my-paas>.macrometa.io:9093");
```

> ### Producer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Producer
```

Reviewer: Should this be Kafka Producer? Or maybe Producer Properties? It just seems a little vague.

In Kafka, producers write messages to topics.

> Also, you need to add additional properties for Producer for specifying a subscription and serializers are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add additional properties for Producer for specifying a subscription and serializers are as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the following Producer properties for specifying a subscription and serializers:
```

```java
props.put("key.serializer", "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer");
props.put("value.serializer", "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer");
```

> Once you've configured Kafka Properties, you can create a Producer and sent a message for a specific Kafka topic. The topic should have prefix of global either local namespace. A full topic name: `<c8globals or c8locals>.<my-topic>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've configured Kafka Properties, you can create a Producer and send a message for a specific Kafka topic. The topic should have prefix of global either local namespace. A full topic name would match this format: `<c8globals or c8locals>.<my-topic>`.
```

```java
Producer<String, String> producer = new KafkaProducer<String, String>(props);
producer.send(new ProducerRecord<String, String>("<c8globals or c8locals>.<my-topic>", "<message-key-1>", "<message-value-1>"));
```

> Make sure that you close your producer when you do not need it.

Reviewer: Why is "Producer" uppercase above and lowercase here? Be consistent throughout. Only capitalize it if Kafka uses it as a proper name for their thing, because Macrometa does not.

```java
producer.close();
```

> ### Consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Consumer
```

Reviewer: Same comment as the Producer heading. Can we make it more specific? Set up Consumer? Consumer Properties? Kafka Consumer?

If that just doesn't make sense, that's fine.

> In Kafka, consumers subscribe to topics and handle messages that producers publish to those topics. You can instantiate a new consumer by first instantiating a Properties object and passing it properties (as above).

Reviewer: In this paragraph and the next, there is inconsistent capitalization. Why is "Properties" capitalized? Should it be?

Same question for "consumers," which is sometimes capitalized and sometimes not.

> Also, you need to add additional properties for Consumer for specifying a subscription and serializers are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add additional properties for Consumer for specifying a subscription and serializers are as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the following Consumer properties for specifying a subscription and serializers:
```

```java
props.put("enable.auto.commit", "false");
props.put("group.id", <my-subscription>);
props.put("key.deserializer", "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer");
props.put("value.deserializer", "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer");
```

> Once you've configured a Properties object, you can create a Consumer by specifying a topic or multiple topics with global either local distribution.

Reviewer: See earlier comments about capitalization. Make consistent throughout.

For example:

```java
Arrays.asList("c8globals.topic-1", "c8locals.topic-2").

KafkaConsumer<String, String> consumer = new KafkaConsumer<String, String>(props);
consumer.subscribe(Arrays.asList("<c8globals or c8locals>.<my-topic>"));
```

> The subscribe method will auto subscribe the consumer to the specified topic and subscription. One way to make the consumer listen on the topic is to set up a while loop. In this example loop, the consumer listens for messages, prints the contents of any received message, and then acknowledges that the message has been processed by commitAsync() method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The subscribe method automatically subscribes the consumer to the specified topic and subscription.

One way to make the consumer listen to the topic is to set up a while loop. In this example loop, the consumer listens for messages, prints the contents of any received message, and then acknowledges that the message has been processed by the `commitAsync()` method.
```

Reviewer: I suggest putting the first sentence above the code block, combining it with the example intro.

For example, this subscription method automatically subscribes the consumer to the specified topic and subscription.

```java
while (true) {
    ConsumerRecords<String, String> records = consumer.poll(100);
    for (ConsumerRecord<String, String> record : records){
        System.out.printf(">>> offset = %d, key = %s, value = %s\n",
                record.offset(), record.key(), record.value());
        
    }
    consumer.commitAsync();
}
```

> Make sure that you close your consumer when you do not need it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that you close your consumer when you do not need it.
```
